>> Melkey: So we just finished kind of
doing some finishing touches on our
workout store.
And so in the following part of
the course, the kind of final parts,
we're gonna go through all of
the different scenarios of curling,
all of the endpoints that we have.
So if you see, in the post notes
dot txt underneath section 3.5
we have a ton of different curls that
we're gonna be exploring here, okay?
So if you want to follow along,
this is what we're going to be doing, and
I'm gonna be on annotating
everything that I do.
So first, let's go ahead and quickly just
tear down and tear up the go server.
So go run main dot go.
Any obvious issues, no, it's still
on version five, which is great.
The next part,
we still have Docker compose running.
So our DB is running and
we still have psql, okay?
So again, we can check select all from
workouts, everything's fairly empty.
Select all from users.
We have two users, John and Jack,
which we will not be caring about, okay?
We're gonna be making
some brand new users.
We can still use them if you want,
but I'm gonna prefer to just
create new ones just to check if
everything works as it should.
I'm gonna make this new terminal,
I'm gonna clear my terminal.
And then the first request I'm gonna
be making is creating a new user.
So if we go back into the section 3.5,
there's this curl request
here to create a new user.
This one has this John Doe,
I'm gonna just change this.
Let's change this to Melkey.
All right, and
let's change this to melky@example.com,
let's go ahead and grab this.
Go back here, if we paste it,
we now have our melkey user, okay?
This is good, we know we at
least haven't regressed, right?
There's nothing that mess this up for us.
>> Melkey: Next thing is now
we know the username, melkey.
I'm gonna go back to the post here, and
the second curl request we
have is to authenticate.
I'm going to go ahead and grab this, I'm
gonna go over here, I'm gonna paste it.
I'm gonna make some changes, so
it's no longer username john doe,
it's gonna be username Melkey.
All right, press enter,
we have our auth token.
Now what I'm gonna do, is I'm just gonna
quickly, just copy this auth token and
go back here.
I'm gonna make another separate note
that just says, text or tokens dot text.
You don't need to necessarily do this, but
to demonstrate and
have user Melkey and token here.
Okay, so this is a token associated
with Melkey, it's a lot for 24 hours,
it's something that we can control.
We can, again, double check,
select all from tokens, there you go.
User ID three, that's Melkey,
expires this time.
The scope is authentication and
it's hashed.
Cool, we've also already seen this,
it's nothing really new to us, okay?
Now if I go back to post nose,
you should see that we have this other
request to create a workout, okay?
So I'm gonna go ahead and
just copy this, I'm gonna go over here,
I'm gonna paste this.
Now, if I run it with this bearer,
this is a completely different token.
This token is not the one
I just copied over here.
They're very different, right?
This one begins RV-7, and this is one
that I stored from many moons ago.
So if I run this,
token expired or invalid.
Good, okay, so we have some letter
protection for people trying to create
workouts that they can't, their token
expired or the permissions changed.
So I rerun that exact same command.
But this time I changed the bearer
from that old random one
that's in the postnotes dot txt file.
And just bear with me as I go ahead and
delete this.
Okay, if I go back here,
I'm gonna go grab the one that
starts with RV-7,
the one we just saw me create.
If I send this now,
we have this new workout, okay?
So workout ID 3, user ID 3, jogging,
I'm not a big fan of jogging.
Select all from workouts, you can see here
now my morning cardio, it belongs to me.
Select all from work out underscore,
entries.
>> Melkey: You can see
that we have jogging.
Okay, cool, so that's pretty nice,
that's pretty cool.
We have a way to allow people who are
logged in correctly to make modifications.
All right, that's pretty awesome.
Now that we know this
workout belongs to me,
I'm going to do is I'm
gonna make a new user.
Let's go all the way back to our post
underscore notes and let's go here.
This is a request to create a user, right?
So I've already created a username,
Melkey.
If I paste this, let's go ahead and
make a new username.
We're gonna call this one dustin,
all right?
>> Melkey: It should be
dustin@example.com, okay?
If I click enter again,
we know this works.
We have our new user, dustin cool,
and let's give dustin a token.
So, let's authenticate, let's grab this.
If you go over here, username,
let's just put dustin here.
>> Melkey: Cool, we have the new
auth token that belongs to Dustin.
So now let's grab this.
Let's go back here into the tokens dot
txt node to remove this annoying line.
So now user,
this one belongs to a Dustin, and
their token is like that, okay?
So two very different tokens,
one is RV-7, the other one's SYL.
So the thing I want to validate is,
can Dustin update my workout,
or can Dustin delete my workout, right?
Everything we just did, we have to kind
of go back and fix it, it's gonna suck.
However, if you can't,
then we know that we have everything
working accordingly, right?
We've already validated that anonymous
users can't do things that they're not
allowed to do.
We've already validated
the validity of tokens.
Now we need to make sure
that we check that owners
truly can update an owner's workout.
So here and quickly clear this just so
we have more room.
Go back to post notes, and in here, we
should have this pull request right here.
So the last coral request in that file,
I'm gonna go ahead and copy this,
I'm gonna paste it.
Few things we need to change.
So here, instead of workout 6,
I believe if we go here,
it is what select all from workouts,
it is workout 3, okay?
So the ID of that workout is three,
and quickly replace this.
[COUGH] you can see the content
of the body is updated cardio.
So instead of jogging,
I realized I was actually walking.
And over here, I'm gonna bring
back Dustin's token credentials.
And we know Dustin did not create
this workout the initial work,
I did not create workout three.
So if I paste this and I run this,
you're not authorized to
update this workout right?
Which is expected, because now we actually
have the logic that extracts the token.
We know who the user belongs to.
And if we kind of go back and
remove Dustin's SYL
token,
>> Melkey: And we go over here and
grab Melkey's token that
is definitely not expired.
Go here and paste it, and if you run this,
we now updated the cardio,
and we can validate this from
select all from workouts.
And now it says updated cardio,
a relaxed 45 minute walk after dinner.